This next lecture is on a concept
that confuses a lot of people, but
now that you're armed with your
understanding of the execution stack,
execution context, and
variable environments,
the scope chain won't be that
difficult for you to understand.
Let's take a look at another
piece of sample code.
Very similar, we have function b,
function a, and
the myVars again, except in function
b we're not declaring myVar.
We're just going to console.log it.
So, what do you think is going to happen?
When we get to that line in function b,
and we console.log(myVar).
Remember, when b is invoked,
or executed or
run, it creates a new execution context,
puts it on the stack,
and puts into its variable environment
any variables that are declared.
But myVar is not declared.
So, what do you think is going to happen?
Let's put the code into
our JavaScript file.
Again I'm console logging
myVar inside the b function.
And here myVar is one,
here myVar is two I'm invoking b,
console.log, and at the end I'm invoking a
here, so that's where this will all start.
So what do you think I'll see in the log?
Let's run this.
And when I look in the developer tools,
in the console I get a 1, a 1.
The value that was sitting
here at the global level.
Is that what you expected?
Some of you might have
expected it to be undefined.
Because we didn't define myVar,
we didn't declare it inside this function,
inside it's variable environment.
And maybe some of you thought it might be
two, because we called b from function a,
and maybe somehow it would
know what its value was there.
But instead, it's one,
the value at the global level.
Let's see why.
So remember this, function b
console.log(myVar) was a one, or
what was sitting on the global execution
context, not undefined, not 2, why?
Well, remember we have our execution
stack at the global level it was one.
When a is run we also vared my var,
and that was a value of two.
And then when b was executed,
we just console.logged, and
we didn't declare anything.
And that was just empty,
there is no myVar in that execution
context variable environment.
But when we request a variable.
When we do something with the variable,
JavaScript does more then
just look in the variable environment
of the currently executing context.
Remember that each execution context has
some special things that get created for
you like the variable this.
Remember we also mentioned one other
thing that we have not used yet,
the reference to the outer environment.
Every execution context has
a reference to its outer environment.
Now what is its outer environment?
Well in the case of function b,
it's outer environment is
the Global Execution Context.
That's also the case in function A.
Even though A is directly below
B in the execution stack,
as far as what code is going to run.
That little outer environment
reference that execution context gets,
doesn't necessarily have to be
the execution context directly below it.
Instead, it's something that
we've already talked about.
What kind of outer environment
are we referring to?
Remember that big word that we used
almost at the beginning of this course?
The lexical environment.
Wait a minute.
Back up, back up,
back up, back up back up.
Lexical environment?
Didn't that mean that where
something is written, physically,
in your code is important?
That it determines certain things
as far as how the JavaScript engine
will decide and
interpret where things live, and
where things will sit in memory, and
how they'll connect to each other.
That's right.
So where does function b sit lexically?
It lexically sits on top
of the global environment,
in other words It's not inside function a,
it's sitting
right there at the same level as
that last line where myVar = 1.
Now don't get lost about this,
we're not changing our minds
in that the execution
contexts don't matter,
don't regard where something is
sitting physically in the code.
It doesn't.
The B could be above the A,
the A could be above the B.
It doesn't matter.
What's going to happen is the order
of execution will determine
how those are invoked,
how those execution contexts are created.
However, JavaScript does something special
it cares about the lexical environment
when it comes to the outer reference
that every execution context gets.
And when you ask for a variable while
running a line of code inside any
particular execution context,
if it can't find that variable it will
look at the outer reference and
go look for variables there.
Somewhere down below it
in the execution stack.
And that outer reference where that points
is going to depend on where
the function sits lexically.
So my b function sits
lexically not inside a but
at the global level, right smack dab
at the outmost point of the code,
and so its outer environment,
its outer lexical environment,
is global and so as a's.
In JavaScript, when I asked for
myVar inside that b execution context,
it couldn't find it.
And so it went down and
found it in the Global Execution Context.
So again,
these execution contexts are created and
it doesn't matter where the code is
physically written, where these functions
are physically written in regards to when
these execution contexts were created.
That has to do with when you invoke them.
But when you invoke them,
when you invoke a function.
The JavaScript engine creates
an outer reference for
that execution context and it looks at
where the code was physically sitting.
The syntax parser already knows because
it went through line by line your code,
and it knows where that
function was written.
And it then creates
the appropriate outer reference
based on where your function was
physically written in the JavaScript file.
Now this entire act of searching this
chain of references to outer environments,
because this execution context
stack could get really tall, and
maybe myVar is a ways down the stack.
It has to search one and then look for
another outer environment and
search again until gets
all the way to the bottom
where the global is where there is
no outer environment to find myVar.
So if I had several more functions calling
each other it would keep on moving down
until it hit global if those functions
were defined inside each other.
Down those outer environment references
until it finds it or doesn't.
That whole chain is
called the Scope Chain.
Remember scope means,
where can I access a variable.
And the chain is those links of
outer environment references.
Lexical, that is where it was
physically written in your code.
So, when we said inside function B
console dot log MyVar it looked for
MyVar, couldn't find it, and
went down the scope chain.
Now, it's going to go down
the execution stack but
it jumps because it's not
necessarily right below it.
The outer environment,
in this case, lexically was global.
All right,
let's show how we can change this
by changing the lexical
environment of the function.
All right, so
let's take a look at function b again.
Where is it lexically?
Well, it's lexically sitting
on the global environment.
Remember that this is where it sits.
It's actually attached
to the global object.
It's declared lexically, physically,
at the same spot that myVar is.
It's not inside a function,
it's just there on the JavaScript file.
So the JavaScript engine,
when it generates the execution context,
when b is called,
it creates that execution context,
and creates an outer environment along
with the this variable and other things.
It creates an outer environment
reference to the lexical environment.
That is to say hey, the JavaScript
engine saw that the function is sitting
physically here or it could also be
sitting physically here, doesn't matter.
It's sitting physically though not
inside any other functions, so
it's outer reference is the global
execution context variable environment.
So when it looks for
myVar it can't find it in here.
So it goes down the scope chain,
skips over
that A execution context because it's
not lexically in there, finds it here.
So when I run this code I get a 1.
But if I change the lexical environment,
and put function b inside function a,
a few things happen.
I've changed the lexical environment of b,
meaning that
I've changed where it physically sits in
the code so that it's inside a function.
And so its environment is different.
Immediately that means I can no longer
just call b out here at the global
level because what will happen is, the
global execution environment will look for
the function b.
But that was never added to its variable
environment because it's inside a,
so the JavaScript engine, when it
created the Global Execution Context,
it found function a and added it, but
it didn't look inside function a or
anything like that, It just went to
the end of function a and kept going.
So, there is no b in
the global execution context.
So I'm gonna get an uncaught reference,
b is not defined.
See that?
Because that first creation
phase didn't find function b
in the global execution context was
created, only function a because that's
where it's sitting lexically,
function a is visible lexically but not b.
However, when I call a,
did you notice what the value was?
I called a,
a's execution environment is created.
It's execution context and
when I call b what's myvar?
2.
Do you see what just happened?
All right.
So what just happened?
Well, the same execution
context were created,
he global and then a was called,
and then b was called.
However, because b was sitting
physically inside the a function,
the JavaScript engine said, well,
its outer reference will then be a,
because that's where
it's physically sitting.
And as, but
that would still be the global.
And so when we asked for
myVar this time and when it went down the
scope chain cuz it couldn't find it in b,
instead of going to global,
it went to a, found myVar.
It said hey you asked for myVar and when
I went to the outer lexical environment
I found myVar, and so, it's two.
Makes sense?
The outer lexical environment
of b is a this time,
because b is physically sitting,
in the physical code that we typed,
it was physically sitting
Inside function a.
So where something sits physically,
thinking lexically.
There's a really easy way to figure out
how something we found
along the scope chain.
In other words,
if I don't declare a variable inside
a function, where will I go find it?
So function b is sitting inside a.
So if I don't declare it inside b,
it will go look for it first inside a.
If it can't find it inside a,
a's outer reference is to global,
and so it'll look for it there.
So notice I just got rid of that,
it's back to one.
See it went up or down, depending on how
you want to think about it in the chain,
the scope chain.
So now you look for myVar in the b
execution context, can't find it.
The outer reference is a, can't find it.
The auto reference of a is global,
hey, there it is.
See how that works?
Now, another way to think about this,
if you don't want to think lexically is,
who created me?
The outer reference is to the execution
context in which the function was created.
So, in this case function b isn't created
until a's execution
context is created right?
Because the global is just
gonna add myVar and a.
Then when a is run, it's gonna
go through its create phase, and
say I need to create b.
And since b was created
during the creation phase of
a's execution context,
that's its outer environment.
If I moved b back out,
then now when is b created?
B is created when the global
execution context is created and
so that's it's outer reference.
It's a different way of thinking about it.
It still works.
But the fastest way to think about it in
my opinion is thinking about it lexically,
that way you can just
look at your code and
know, oh,
if I have code that looks like this.
This is going to be a 2, because of
where it sits, physically, lexically.
Make sense?
All right.
So again, if I just remove all of this,
it will go all the way up the scope
chain and I still get a 1.
We've learned that where a function sits
determines its outer
environment reference.
But as it's being executed,
those execution contexts are stacking up,
and it's running synchronously.
We've learned quite a bit, and
we're understanding the scope chain.
This concept can be confusing for
people, it can be a little weird.
But if you understand what's happening
under the hood of JavaScript,
you'll be able to determine what's
really happening to your code.
And when you have a problem,
when a variable is an unexpected value,
you'll be able to debug it and
say I know why it is what it is.
Because I know how this really works.
All right, let's move on.